#summary How does it work?

= Introduction =

Using [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XSLT XSLT] to transform an [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XML/EDIFACT XML/EDIFACT] instance to an [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EDIFACT EDIFACT] instance is quite natural, since an XSLT script can produce plain text output :-) On the other hand, the source document *must always be a well-formed XML instance*, which means that XSLT does not look like the ideal tool to transform an EDIFACT instance to an XML/EDIFACT instance :-(

But, when you have tasted the power of XSLT to transform XML/EDIFACT to EDIFACT, you cannot resign yourself not to use it for the other way!

And, finally, the trick is quite easy. You just need to *pre-parse* the *syntax* of the incoming EDIFACT instance using a super-simple grammar. Such a pre-parser is *very* simple to write in your preferred classic programming (scripting) language - you should end up with less than 100 lines of code - and give you a valid source document for an XSLT that will do the real work of transforming EDIFACT into XML/EDIFACT ;-)

= Pre-Parsing of the EDIFACT instance =

== My super-simple grammar ==

The root tag is *`<F>`*.

Every segment creates a *`<S>`* element, which are the only children of *`<F>`*. Each *`<S>`* element has a single *`<N>`* element as its first child. It contains the 3-letter code of the segment, e.g. UNH, BGM, DTM, etc.

Then, any _Data Element Separator_ creates a *`<U>`* element *and* *`<V>`* element, as child of the *`<U>`* element. The data that is just after the _Data Element Separator_ always go into the first *`<V>`* element.

Finally, after this data, you either got (1) a _Component Data Element Separator_ that creates a new following-sibling *`<V>`* element, (2) a new _Data Element Separator_ that creates a new *`<U>`* element, with its own *`<V>`* child element, or you reach the end of segment.

_*Done ;-)*_ But, it's always a good idea to give some *examples*...

=== Example 1 ====

{{{BGM+220+123350+9'}}}
{{{
<S n="3">
  <N>BGM</N>
  <U>
    <V>220</V>
  </U>
  <U>
    <V>123350</V>
  </U>
  <U>
    <V>9</V>
  </U>
</S>
}}}

Remark. I have added a sequential counter to the *`<S>`* element, within the *`n`* attribute, for the optimization of the XSLT parser. You will see its usage later ;-)

=== Example 2 ===

{{{DTM+4:20011107:102'}}}
{{{
<S n="4">
  <N>DTM</N>
  <U>
    <V>4</V>
    <V>20011107</V>
    <V>102</V>
  </U>
</S>
}}}

=== Example 3 ===

{{{LIN+1++STU62001LW-K:BP'}}}
{{{
<S n="11">
  <N>LIN</N>
  <U>
    <V>1</V>
  </U>
  <U>
    <V/>
  </U>
  <U>
    <V>STU62001LW-K</V>
    <V>BP</V>
  </U>
</S>
}}}

=== Example 4 ===

{{{IMD++3+:::SEAGATE VIPER EXT LVD 200G ULTRIUM'}}}
{{{
<S n="12">
  <N>IMD</N>
  <U>
    <V/>
  </U>
  <U>
    <V>3</V>
  </U>
  <U>
    <V/>
    <V/>
    <V/>
    <V>SEAGATE VIPER EXT LVD 200G ULTRIUM</V>
  </U>
</S>
}}}

== My Pre-Parsing Algorithm ===

_To be continued..._